README.md, before:


# NatLang

NatLang is a simple programming language designed to generate fully functional Python code from high-level function signatures and optional notes. This README will guide you through the syntax, features, and best practices for working with NatLang.

## Key Features

- **Function Signature Parsing**: Define functions in a clear and consistent format.
- **Contextual Notes**: Provide additional context or instructions to enhance code generation (optional).
- **Automatic Code Generation**: The compiler produces complete Python code for each function signature.
- **Error Handling**: Built-in mechanisms to handle errors and refine the generated code.
- **Logging**: Detailed logs for debugging and troubleshooting.

---

## Syntax Guide

### Function Definition

A function in NatLang is defined using the following format:

```
!func name=<function_name>[
<Description of the function and its purpose.>
]
```

#### Example

To create a function that adds two numbers:

```
!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]
```

### Adding Notes

Notes can be included at the top of the file to provide context or special instructions for the compiler. Use the following syntax:

```
!notes[<Your note here.>]
```

#### Example

For a calculator application:

```
!notes[This is a test file for a simple calculator application. Ensure all operations are handled correctly.]
```

> **Note**: The `!notes` directive is optional. If not provided, the compiler will proceed with just the function definitions.

---

## Best Practices

- **Be Descriptive**: Use clear and detailed descriptions in both notes and function signatures.
- **Keep It Concise**: Avoid unnecessary verbosity in notes or function descriptions.
- **Organize Effectively**: If using the `!notes` directive, include it at the top of your file followed by related functions.
- **Test Thoroughly**: Verify the generated Python code to ensure it meets your requirements.

---

## Advanced Usage

### Structuring Files

NatLang files can begin with an optional `!notes` directive, followed by one or more `!func` definitions. For example:

```
!notes[This program handles basic arithmetic operations.]

!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]

!func name=multiply[
Multiply two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=divide[
Divide the first number by the second and return the result. Handle division by zero.
]
```

Or, if no notes are needed:

```
!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]
```

### Error Handling

If errors are encountered during compilation, the compiler will attempt to fix them automatically. If unresolved, it will provide details for manual correction.

---

## Example Program

### Input File (`example_program.lang`):

```
!notes[This program demonstrates basic arithmetic functions for a calculator.]

!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]

!func name=multiply[
Multiply two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=divide[
Divide the first number by the second and return the result. Handle division by zero.
]
```

Or, without notes:

```
!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]
```

### Output File (`output.py`):

```python
# Auto-generated Python code

def add(a, b):
    return a + b

def subtract(a, b):
    return a - b

def multiply(a, b):
    return a * b

def divide(a, b):
    if b == 0:
        raise ValueError("Division by zero is not allowed.")
    return a / b
```

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to NatLang! Please feel free to submit issues or pull requests on the GitHub repository to improve the language or its documentation.

---

## License

NatLang is released under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more details.

Commit message:

Add compilation instructions to README and create requirements.txt

README.md, after:


# NatLang

NatLang is a simple programming language designed to generate fully functional Python code from high-level function signatures and optional notes. This README will guide you through the syntax, features, and best practices for working with NatLang.

## Key Features

- **Function Signature Parsing**: Define functions in a clear and consistent format.
- **Contextual Notes**: Provide additional context or instructions to enhance code generation (optional).
- **Automatic Code Generation**: The compiler produces complete Python code for each function signature.
- **Error Handling**: Built-in mechanisms to handle errors and refine the generated code.
- **Logging**: Detailed logs for debugging and troubleshooting.

---

## Syntax Guide

### Function Definition

A function in NatLang is defined using the following format:

```
!func name=<function_name>[
<Description of the function and its purpose.>
]
```

#### Example

To create a function that adds two numbers:

```
!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]
```

### Adding Notes

Notes can be included at the top of the file to provide context or special instructions for the compiler. Use the following syntax:

```
!notes[<Your note here.>]
```

#### Example

For a calculator application:

```
!notes[This is a test file for a simple calculator application. Ensure all operations are handled correctly.]
```

> **Note**: The `!notes` directive is optional. If not provided, the compiler will proceed with just the function definitions.

---

## Best Practices

- **Be Descriptive**: Use clear and detailed descriptions in both notes and function signatures.
- **Keep It Concise**: Avoid unnecessary verbosity in notes or function descriptions.
- **Organize Effectively**: If using the `!notes` directive, include it at the top of your file followed by related functions.
- **Test Thoroughly**: Verify the generated Python code to ensure it meets your requirements.

---

## Advanced Usage

### Structuring Files

NatLang files can begin with an optional `!notes` directive, followed by one or more `!func` definitions. For example:

```
!notes[This program handles basic arithmetic operations.]

!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]

!func name=multiply[
Multiply two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=divide[
Divide the first number by the second and return the result. Handle division by zero.
]
```

Or, if no notes are needed:

```
!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]
```

### Error Handling

If errors are encountered during compilation, the compiler will attempt to fix them automatically. If unresolved, it will provide details for manual correction.

---

## Example Program

### Input File (`example_program.lang`):

```
!notes[This program demonstrates basic arithmetic functions for a calculator.]

!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]

!func name=multiply[
Multiply two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=divide[
Divide the first number by the second and return the result. Handle division by zero.
]
```

Or, without notes:

```
!func name=add[
Add two numbers and return the result.
]

!func name=subtract[
Subtract the second number from the first and return the result.
]
```

### Output File (`output.py`):

```python
# Auto-generated Python code

def add(a, b):
    return a + b

def subtract(a, b):
    return a - b

def multiply(a, b):
    return a * b

def divide(a, b):
    if b == 0:
        raise ValueError("Division by zero is not allowed.")
    return a / b
```

---

## Compiling

To compile your project, run the main.py file, select your .lang file, your model to use (it may ask for your OpenAI Key), and where to save it to. Give it some time, and it should create a new Python script!

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to NatLang! Please feel free to submit issues or pull requests on the GitHub repository to improve the language or its documentation.

---

## License

NatLang is released under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more details.
